Now if you know angular you know how you can handle forum stare.
And here I want to use the template driven approach.
So an angular we would simply wrap our form with the form element with the normal H HTML form element.
So for example here we could wrap this entire grid which contains our form inputs and the buttons that
belong to the forum with a form element.
Now let me close that here.
And does this how angular would by default.
As long as we add our forms module here which is added by default to imports in the module that contains
the page or the component we place the form on as long as we have that form as module from angular forms
angular will automatically detect this form element and setup a form object behind the scenes for us
where it then allows us to register inputs and that it manages these inputs automatically.
Now how does that work in ionic.
Just like that it is a web n in the end.
Never forget this.
It's a web app where we use angular and therefore we can use all these default angular features without
any changes.
So by wrapping our form inputs here and the buttons with a foreign tag and making sure that we do import
forms module in the module that holds the off page.
We get this template driven approach to work out of the box without any additional configuration needed.
Now the only confusing thing might be well but we're not using normal inputs and buttons.
We're using ion inputs and ion buttons.
The thing is these web components just wrap these normal inputs in buttons and they are written by the
ionic team in a way such that they expose all the API is all the different features normal inputs do.
So I an input can be used just like a normal input in an eye on a form.
You don't need any special configuration.
Instead you can simply add and you model on there and to name attribute which you need to add when working
with the template driven approach and give this any name you want.
Like email and you're good angular can now detect this input and added to the form which is automatically
create for you.
You can of course also add validation as you know it.
So for the template driven approach you add validation by adding directives on the input.
For example here we could add the required directive and the email directive to make it clear that this
input is both required and should be an email and therefore of course all set type here from text to
email which will make sure that we also get the right keyboard to open up on a real device.
So the right soft keyboard which automatically gives us simple access to the at sign and so on.
So with that I configured the first input.
Now we can all do configure the second input and there again I add energy model and a name and the name
here can be password.
But you're free to choose any name and I will require that.
And we can also add the min length directive here which both the AI and input supports out of the box
as well as angular angular supports the min length directive and it will automatically validate whatever
we enter here to have a minimum length of whatever value enter here.
So let's say our password should be at least six characters long.
Well then we just have to add Min length six here.
And when I say ionic all the supports this you'll see in a second what I mean by that and why this is
pretty amazing.
So we have our two inputs configured.
We have our form angular should now be able to automatically detect all of that but in order to get
access to that form we need to add a local reference on that form element which can have any name you
want like f or form.
I'll just go with f and you actually assign a value to that and the value here has to be energy form.
What this does is it gives you access to this form object angular created for you and it gives you access
to this form object by giving you a reference to it stored in that f local reference.
So now everywhere in this template we can get access to that form fruit at f local reference and therefore
for example here we can add energy submit event listener here and call on submit there and here I forward
F so this local reference this allows me to then accept the form angular and create for us in the on
submit method and in case you're wondering and you submit is a special directive angular gives us that
will prevent the default which would be that the form submission actually sends a request to the back
end which we don't want and instead of just captures the event it gives us access to all the foreign
data.
So now we just have to add ons up at method and we have to make sure that this form gets submitted only
by that log in button and I do make sure that this is the case by giving does a type of submit and giving
the order button a type of button.
So the first button will now not submit the form only the second button will let's now add the on submit
method in the off page typescript file and there we will get a form which is of type energy form an
energy form is a type.
You need to import from at angular forms
and let simply for now console log this form object to see what's inside of it.
And now let's see what that gives us.
Let's wait for this page to reload.
Here's our form.
And if I press log in.
You see I get this energy for the thing you're under controls.
You see a list of all the controls angular registered for us.
That is the e-mail and password control because these are the two inputs on which we added and you model.
We also have that value field which is a javascript object with our control names email and password.
So the names we assigned on these iron inputs in our template and the value which was in them when the
form was submitted.
So this works but it's not just a submission that works if we go back and for example I happen here
in a leaf that you now see I have a red border.
So we automatically get some error stalls here out of the box and that's the case because if we inspect
this does I an item here actually receives some classes like iron invalid iron touched.
And that's again the iron item working to gather with the iron input.
As I mentioned before the Iron input has these angular classes like energy and valid energy pristine
and so on it also has these ionic specific classes and that is what I meant with ionic also understands
Min length and so on ionic also has these basic validation features built in built into its components
its input components and therefore it is also able to correctly show you our styles and it all is as
as some extra adjustments for the angular package so it's able to show you aero styles when your validation
errors out here and therefore we got these nice aerosols out of the box without us needing to do anything.